ok lets continue to work through past employers, lets talk about southeaster grocers, i was initally hired in response to them selling thier warehosue to a 3rd party C&S wholesale. my job was managing the demand for advertised deals, 2 for $4 or buy one get ones. I was to determin the average lift in demand for each promotion, there were a ton of factors to consider for each product, even what other products were or were not on sales, then I would define a qty, the warehosue company had to ensure they had that much on hand, if no we would fine the, for lost sales, if we had too much we had to pay a penalty for the excess inventory. I managed this process for a while and was then promoted to managing the delivery schedules, again this was managed by the 3rd party so we were alloted a delivery frequency based on the total tonage of grocerys required, so for dry goods the threshold might be 10,000 lbs, but frozen would be much lower like 2000 lbs. this would mean the store would get one delivery of that commodity for every 2000 lbs of orderd. so if the stores average frozen weekly demand was 10000 lbs that store would get 5 frozen deliveries. but if that was a 10000 lbs demand for dry goods they awould only be 1 delivery. i built a dashboard that monitored for shift in average demand so that i could react by increasing deliveries. there were several seasonal impact from tourist, for example i had one store that would do a million dollars in sales the weekend of 4th of july but wouldnt do a million for the whole rest of the year. it was important to identify these seasonal demand shift before the occurred otherwise there were empty shleves at the stores. In addition to simply defiing the number of deliveries i would have to justify expecetions and their contractual expense. I would also hav to work with the warehosue logistics teams to define the actual delivery schedule by store, M-W-F understanding that there were limited number of trucks and drivers to work with, and you couldt just hire a new driver to fullfil demand hap hazardly. I managed the delivery schedule for all southeastern grocery stores (winn dixie and Bi-Lo).