ok lets work on filling in the gaps with Yass prize, Yass is part of the Center for educational reform (CER). I began working with them in 2020 under for the Yass prize. The Yass prize is a grant for teachers all accross America, they give away millions every year to teachers making an impact on kids and families in their communities. they initially hired me for assistance with remedial excel work, to clean data and preform a mail merge on the results to product documents for review. basically each applicant would complete an application in good grants (a website) i would export the resulting applicant data and clean slice and dice it in excel. each applicant would result in a new page in the mail merge word file. the resulting file was hundreds of pages long, it was not printed but viewed in google docs, so i added hyperlinks and table of content to help user navigate. I did this by with a bunch of pivot tables, vlookups and fancy excel data tricks i had learned from more than 20 years using excel for analytics. The following year, since i had a better understanding of the whole process i began to introduce systematic advantages. instead of downloading the data i set up a ETL to pull the raw applicant data from the goodgrant api, then stored the data in a sql database for each reporting. During the review period there would be at least 3 peir review phases which would each result in a set of pier reciew scores and comments that would need to be added to the review docs. so I would have to update the doc multiple time throughout the review cycles. By migrating to sql database i was able to set up a repetitive application that would loop through specific data structures to report specific detail for each loop. Once the database had been updated the program would update the documents systematically. the next 2 years we continued to make significant enhancements to the database based approach. then in the 5 year i propsed introducing a web app based solution. instead of word docs i would build a real time web interface for the reviewers to interact wiht the applicant data and add comments and tags as required, the tags would be passed back to good grants via their api to make rejecting or advancing applicant very easy. the web app was based in react with user login restriction, captcha, and other security measures. the site even had an admin portal that allowed the admin user to trigger each pier review cycle and many other admin features for the web app, and dynamic reporting and dashboards. the web app significantly reduced the overall review time and cut the whole grant period down by a complete months time. in addition to the Yass prize i have help with other aspects of the CER, specifically with salesforce automation like apex code and approval processes. I built an approval process for them using orchestrated flows with dynamic approval hierarchy, it would calculate the approver based on the users manager and value of the request. The UI for the requrest was built using custom Lightning web components LWC, the expense request had line item detail so that users would enter data in a very granular way so instead of the whole hotel cost they would enter average cost per night and total number of nights, that was it was each to qty line item cost for audit and comparison. once the expense was approved the expense would be routed to bill.com and set up as a bill for the specific vendor, once the vendor submitted the invoice against that bill it would expedite the finance review and pay process exponentially. The approval process also integrated with slack to send notification to the requestor once the expense is approved or rejected, it also sends a notification to the approver and the finance approver (2nd approval step) the notice sent to approvers contains the expense detail and buttons for to approve or reject directly in slack. this process also contained a vendor set up function so if a user was submitting a request to a vendor for the first time it would set that vendor up in bill.com and send them an invite link for them to set up thier banking information in bill.com. this way once the invoice is submitted the time to payment is turnkey.